# CS336_Project_2

## Team Contributions - Lucas Bandeira, Shreya Bhatlapenumarti, Angela Ding, Lakshmi Kottapalli

### Lakshmi K. --> Created python program to take in SQL query and print out results on the database. Used psycopg2 for PostgreSQL connection and getpass for passwords. 
### Shreya B. --> Implemented the LLM prompt and query generation logic. Created database_llm.py, which takes natural language user questions and converts them into SQL SELECT queries based on the Project 1 schema. Also built a loop to accept user input and tested the program on sample queries such as average income and loan comparisons. The most challenging part was making sure the LLM was consistently returning SQL without extra explanations since sometimes it generated additional text that needed to be handled by the pipeline. The most interesting part was seeing how natural language could be translated into SQl queries through the LLm model and the usage of the fallback logic to make the system more reliable. Also, created the video showing the working code.
### Angela D. --> Created the schema_subset file which maps the normalized relations from Project 1 which includes the Normalized App, Agency, and ActionTaken tables. Also, I am responsible for text processing and extraction so I added the extract_query function in database_llm file which isolate the SELECT statements and make sure the output is cleaned of anything unnecesarry so it can be safely executed. The most challenging part was deciding how much information the LLM needed and also writing the regular expressions. The most interesting part was how much change there was when you add an INSERT statement.   
### Lucas B. --> Integrated all parts into one interactive program, added the SSH connection to iLab. Connects the user question loop, the LLM output, the SQL extraction function, and the remote iLab DB script. Used Paramiko to SSH into the iLab server, asking for credentials with getpass, sent valid SQL query to remote script and displayed the output back to  user.
